Hello, dear colleagues.
Today's part of our video course on operational management
will be conducted by me.
My name is Oleg Levyakov.
Today we will talk about several extremely important issues
that are important for the survival of a company in modern market conditions.
One of these issues is the placement of production and service facilities.
Issues such as where to place a factory or enterprise,
where to place an office or a reception center that provides services to the population,
are becoming the main strategies of both production and service companies,
especially in the modern times of global markets and global production.
The drastic changes in trade relations have turned the world into a global village
and have given companies both large and medium-sized
a greater flexibility in choosing their facilities.
However, the issue of practical placement of enterprises
should be solved taking into account two contradictory conditions.
Please look at the slide.
On the one hand, production must be placed close to the consumers,
which is due to competition for time gain,
as well as various trade agreements and the desire to reduce transport costs.
On the other hand, production must be placed close to a cheap
and at the same time highly qualified workforce.
When placing production and service facilities,
companies must be guided by various criteria,
determined by the requirements of market competition.
Let's briefly comment on these main criteria
that affect the choice of the location of production facilities and other facilities,
both service and logistics.
Please look at the next slide.
These criteria are proximity to the consumer.
On the other hand, a very important criterion is the business climate as a whole.
A business climate favorable for a company can include
a comparable scale of entrepreneurship,
the presence of companies operating in the same industry,
in the case of foreign branches, the presence of other foreign companies.
In addition, a business climate is determined by the presence of
a clear and transparent legislation in the business sphere,
the support of entrepreneurial activity by local authorities,
state authorities, subsidies, benefits, and so on.
In total, the last element is determined by the term goodwill,
that is, non-material assets.
The next important criterion is the total costs.
The goal of the optimal location is to choose a place
with the lowest total costs for the company.
In addition to production, they include various regional costs,
internal and external costs for the distribution of goods.
Regional costs include land rental costs,
construction costs, payment of local labor,
local and state taxes, as well as energy and other costs.
There are also hidden costs that are difficult to take into account.
These include costs for transportation to long distances of raw materials.
There are also costs for the transportation of finished products
between various intermediaries up to the end consumer,
which depends on the distribution system used by the company.
It is necessary to consider the weakening of the consumer's response
in the case of a remote location of the consumer market,
which is an extremely important factor in the conditions of the consumer's dictatorship
on almost any market.
The next important criterion is infrastructure.
For any modern enterprise, especially in the field of mass production,
it is necessary to have a well-developed transport system,
including automotive, railway, water, aviation transport,
as well as the provision of electricity needs in telecommunications and communications.
In many countries, the first place is given to the quality of professional training of the workforce.
Educational and professional levels of the workforce should meet the needs of the company,
and even more important is the readiness and ability of the workforce to train and adapt.
The next important criterion is the proximity to suppliers.
The presence of a highly professional and competitive network of suppliers
is one of the determining conditions for the placement of individual units of the enterprise.
The proximity of the main suppliers, among other advantages,
allows the use of methods of organization of the safe production,
the so-called lean production,
or the production of elements in a just-in-time sequence.
It is important to note the role of the location of other companies' facilities,
primarily the management facilities.
The location of factories and distribution centers of the company
can significantly affect the choice of the location of a new facility.
In this context, the decision on the placement is closely related to the choice of assortment
and the volume of produced products for a particular market.
In the conditions of globalization, it is very important to pay attention to the placement of free trade zones.
The so-called free trade zones are usually closed regions
under the supervision of state customs services,
where imported goods of foreign production are sold directly,
without the formalities required by the customs of a particular country.
In free trade zones, producers can easily import imported materials and accessories
used in their own production,
and also receive a delay in the payment of customs fees
until the delivery of the produced goods to the consumer country.
In some countries, especially in conditions when the production capacity of many companies
is transferred to third world countries,
there is a criteria called political risk.
The rapidly changing geopolitical situation in many countries
opens up new opportunities,
but on the other hand, it determines many conditions of risk management.
No matter how promising the idea of placing some production in Afghanistan may seem,
the political risks are such that any company must measure many times before cutting.
This criterion is closely related to the criterion of the presence or absence of state barriers to protect its market.
At present, in many countries, barriers to the entry into the industry and the placement of production have been legally removed.
However, when planning a placement, many not only official, but also legal and cultural barriers should be taken into account.
That is, the difference, first of all, in the national mentality.
The presence or absence of trade unions in one region or another also plays an important role.
What is a trade union?
This is a group of countries that have concluded agreements on mutual conditions of trade in goods.
Companies that place their enterprises within the countries of a particular trade union
use some additional advantages in new markets and provide lower costs.
Recently, when placing, first of all, harmful products, such as chemical, industrial,
as in many industries, color and black metallurgy,
environmental requirements should be taken into account,
which are issued to the companies that are placed, the government of certain countries or regions.
It is very important to consider the interest of the consumer country in the placement of a foreign enterprise in its territory.
At the same time, the significant importance is not only the will of the leadership of a particular state,
but also the educational level of the local population, its quality of life and its attitude to foreign employees.
And the last thing to say is the competitive advantage,
which is extremely important for transnational companies in the matter of choosing a state
in which to place a headquarters or a holding company.
One of the gurus of scientific management, Michael Porter, noted that companies can have
different basic foundations for certain types or parts of a business.
However, the competitive advantage is created in the company's headquarters,
where a strategy is determined, the main product is developed, the so-called product design,
where technological processes are developed, process design,
where the main critical mass of production is created.
Therefore, the company should transfer its basic foundation only to the country
which will encourage innovative activity and provide the best conditions for global competitiveness.
Now, dear colleagues, we will consider the methods used to analyze the conditions for the placement of an object in a particular company.
When performing analysis, the rating system factor is used, the linear programming method
and the so-called centroid method or the center of gravity method.
Each of these methods is a technical tool, and it should be used together with the most detailed and detailed analysis of costs.
And, of course, they should all be associated with the business strategy and business planning of the company's activities.
Please look at the following slide.
The rating system factor is the most widely used general method of location selection.
It is built on a mechanism that allows you to combine various factors in an easy-to-understand and understandable form.
For example, for a certain oil-recycling enterprise, the following score scale is determined in points,
the main factors that affect the location selection.
As you can see on the slide, this factor includes the region's infrastructure capabilities,
the availability and reliability of labor resources, living conditions, the availability of transport networks and some other conditions.
This factor is used to determine the appropriate score scales that you are free to choose.
You need to evaluate each factor in points for each possible location option of this plant.
The overall score of the points is determined by the resulting score, which is the so-called rating of the appropriate location option.
The final location of the plant is chosen according to the option with the highest rating, i.e. the highest score.
However, this method has its drawbacks.
The main problem of using simple rating system factors, i.e. those systems that can be used using paper and pencil,
is that they do not take into account the range of ranges and costs that may take place within each factor.
The first factor may have the highest score, but be unuseful for decision-making on location.
The second may, on the contrary, have a small scale, but determine the real value of the site.
To solve this problem, it is proposed to additionally introduce a weighted assessment of the importance of each factor,
based on relative limits of the cost variation, and not just on the total costs for one or another option.
The next technical method is called the transport method of linear programming.
Those of you, dear listeners, who have basic mathematical or technical training, know what it is.
The transport method is a variety of linear programming methods.
It was given this name because it is widely used to solve problems related to the transportation of products from different sources to several possible destination points.
Such tasks usually follow one of two possible goals.
The first goal is to minimize the cost of delivering a certain amount of products to a certain number of destination points,
and to maximize the profit from delivering a certain amount of products to a certain number of destination points.
These are two approaches that define one picture.
If a creative approach is provided, it can be used to solve different types of tasks.
For example, this method can be used to test the cost of different options of location of new objects
in the existing distribution network.
To do this, you need to add a new line to the table, which must contain the costs of transporting one cargo unit from the producing object to some new place.
Then, a solution is calculated for a new matrix, which shows the minimum total costs.
This is another view that will allow you to make the right decision.
The centroid method is used to determine the location of new objects,
primarily logistic objects, namely, warehouse infrastructure.
It allows to determine the location of an object that provides the minimum costs for transporting cargo
and takes into account the location of existing objects in the production or distribution network.
It also calculates the distance between objects and the volume of cargo that needs to be transported.
In a simplified form, this method assumes that all the transport costs in the forward and reverse direction are the same
and does not take into account the losses due to incomplete loading of the transport.
As we can see from the last conditions, it is also not completely objective.
This is just one of several ways to get a general picture of the solution of an important issue.
Dear colleagues, I am not afraid to show myself as a joker, but I must repeat that by choosing the location of your enterprise,
you are making a very serious investment that should provide you with long-term income as a result of your activities in the chosen place.
Therefore, it is necessary to remember that it is quite problematic to change the location you have chosen once.
You end up with a suitcase with a torn handle, which is difficult to throw away and carry.
Therefore, you need to take this issue very seriously.
If you have located your enterprise in a region with a high cost of energy resources,
then even modern strategic management will not justify the advantages you have lost.
It is fair to use labor resources for the strategy, if the employment in the region you have chosen is characterized by a tendency to increase labor payments,
or vice versa, low labor payments, but poor professional training or low labor discipline.
These issues will also need to be solved.
They are considered by a separate scientific direction, which is called organizational modeling.
In addition, it is impossible to forget about non-economic, political factors,
because there are cases when the decision to place an enterprise provided for consideration by local and regional authorities was rejected at the stage of consent.
Or it could cause a storm of protests from the local population.
This is due to additional costs or losses for the company, so they cannot be ignored when making a decision to place an enterprise.
After you choose the most suitable options for you, the time will come when you will need to make a final decision on the location.
To do this, study the situation in the selected regions, analyzing the following factors
1. Consumer purchasing power in the region
2. Compatibility of the image of your company
3. Corporate culture
4. Service level with demographic situation in the region
5. Competition level with local and foreign manufacturers
6. Geographical features of the facilities of your company and the company of competitors
7. Service level of your company's consumers
8. Your competitiveness and your relationship with business partners
In general, you can draw some conclusions and recommendations on the above problems.
Analyze the options for choosing the location of the company at the stage of the technical and economic justification of the business project.
Choose the location of the company based on the location of the raw materials suppliers,
main auxiliary production materials and semi-finished products.
Location of the main consumption centers in relation to the company.
For example, this is a vitally important issue for the manufacturer of fast-growing products.
Consider the infrastructure of the location of the company,
not only from the point of view of the transport network,
but also from the point of view of the financial infrastructure,
which includes banks, insurance, finance, investment companies and other objects.
Evaluate the possibility of replacing materials and consumables in the event that,
when choosing a location, a significant factor is the cost of transporting raw materials from distant regions.
Even if these regions are familiar to you, regions of production.
Determine the costs for production and marketing operations for alternative locations.
Take your choice so that the costs for the produced product are minimal in total,
and not in individual areas.
Take into account the socio-economic aspects,
environmental factors, factors of the national culture of the population.
After you have identified several alternative options, analyze them in more detail.
Also evaluate the following data and the financial risks associated with them,
using the Risk Management levers.
Production costs.
Production costs for marketing operations, both ATL and BTL classes.
Investment costs, including expenses for environmental protection.
Planned income.
Tax level in the subsidy-benefit subsidy,
which is determined by local and federal authorities.
Pure flows of real money, the so-called cash flow.
Analyze and evaluate these aspects not only quantitatively, but also qualitatively.
And draw conclusions regarding the feasibility and life-span of the chosen location,
without forgetting about the suitcase with the torn handle.
When choosing the location of the company,
pay attention to how it will affect your flexibility.
Production is based on various conditions that can change over time.
The life cycle of modern business structures, modern goods, has been so reduced
that it makes sense to prefer a location that allows for greater flexibility
in relation to modifications and changes in the activities of your company,
including activities in the field of the production of a particular product.
Do not forget about the experience and capabilities of your employees,
especially top managers.
Prefer to place your company in regions where you have personal and business connections.
That is the goodwill.
After we have briefly discussed macro-analyzing the placement of your company's objects,
let's talk a little about micro-analyzing.
That is, the placement of individual blocks of your company on a selected site.
You should approach the placement of production units of the company
as well as the location of the company itself
from the point of view of obtaining the maximum result from the company's activities.
The placement of units on a selected site should be carried out in stages.
Approximately in the following order.
1. Placing workshops and other units on the territory of the enterprise.
2. Placing workshops and other units on the territory of the enterprise.
3. Placing workplaces on the territory of the enterprise.
Dear colleagues, please look at the following slide.
The placement of production units of the enterprise should provide
a rational organization of the entire production process.
To do this, the decision to place production units on the territory
must comply with certain rules and principles.
Here are the main ones.
The first condition concerns the placement of workshops on the course of the production process.
It is very important to take into account that the principle of direct accuracy must be ensured.
To ensure this principle, you must place the main workshops
on the territory of the enterprise along the course of the production process
according to the direction of the main internal factory flows.
From the manufacturing workshops and warehouses to the processing workshops,
and from them to the assembly workshops, and from there to the outgoing warehouses.
2. The location of warehouses at the entrance and exit of the enterprise.
The raw materials warehouses should be placed at the entrance of the enterprise
from the side of the access roads for the import of goods,
and the ready-made products warehouses near the assembly workshops at the exit of the enterprise.
3. The location of auxiliary workshops near the consumers.
The auxiliary production units should be placed as close as possible
to the main production units consuming their products,
without violating the main directions of the cargo flows.
4. The placement of production units taking into account the logistical audits.
The main auxiliary production units, warehouses and other units
should be placed in such a way to ensure the shortest path of the material flows,
the shortest run of vehicles during the production process,
avoiding reverse and counter-movement,
excessive crossings and organization of low-loaded routes.
5. The placement of production facilities taking into account the external factors.
Natural, public, technological.
The main auxiliary production units should be placed taking into account
such factors as natural, such as pink winds,
the possibility of natural lighting, natural ventilation,
the compliance of the architectural, construction, sanitary, technical, fire protection and other standards
provided for your enterprise.
6. The possibility of group building of production facilities.
The separate units, which are closely interconnected during the production process,
should be able to be united into clusters, into groups with placement in one building.
7. The possibility of expansion and modification of production structure.
The possibility of flexible change of production programs.
The facilities on the territory of the enterprise should be placed in such a way
to ensure the possibility of their further expansion and reconstruction
with minimal costs, time and resources,
without the need for demolition or demolition of existing facilities,
and without violating the main idea of the general plan.
8. The maximum use of the land area and the volume of buildings and premises.
The facilities on the territory of the enterprise should be placed in such a way
to ensure the maximum use of these introductory indicators.
The first important point is the location of production facilities
on the territory of the enterprise.
To ensure the principle of directness,
you should make every effort to place the main production sites
on the territory of the enterprise along the production process
according to the direction of the main flows of materials,
which occur approximately as follows,
from the entrance warehouses through the processing workshops
and further to the assembly production.
The second point is the location of warehouses at the entrance or exit of the enterprise.
The warehouses of raw materials should be placed at the entrance of the enterprise,
and the warehouses of finished products should be placed near the assembly workshops at the entrance of the enterprise.
The next factor is the location of auxiliary production facilities closer to the consumer.
The auxiliary production facilities should be placed as close to the main production units
that consume their products, without violating the main directions of the flows of goods.
Make an effort to place the production sites taking into account the rationality of transportation.
The main auxiliary production units, warehouses and other facilities should be placed
in order to ensure the shortest path of the flow of materials
and the shortest run-time of the factory transport during the production process,
without reverse and counter-movements, without excessive crossings,
and without the organization of low-load, and therefore irrational routes.
It is necessary to take into account the importance of placing the production facilities
taking into account the external factors, both natural and technological and public.
Your main auxiliary production facilities, services and their facilities should be placed
taking into account such factors as pink winds in this region,
as well as the possibility of natural lighting, as well as the possibility of ventilation,
while keeping in mind the established architectural, sanitary-technical, fire-fighting and other standards.
It is necessary to provide a group construction of production structures,
and individual units, which are closely interconnected during the production process,
should be able to join the group with the placement in one building.
When placing your production facilities, it is necessary to take into account the possibility of expansion and modification of the production structure.
The facilities on the territory of the enterprise and its units should be placed in order to ensure
the possibility of their further expansion and reconstruction with minimal costs of time and resources,
without violating the main general idea of the plan and without demolishing the previously built facilities.
It is necessary to remember the need for the maximum use of the area of the land plot, building or premises.
The facilities on the territory of the enterprise and its units should be placed in order to ensure
the maximum use of the area of the land plot, building or premises.
It is necessary to increase the number of floors of the building,
if this does not contradict the technological maps and technological processes.
It is necessary to use the area and space for the passage of the buildings,
the use of suspended, underground, multi-tiered transport lines and storage places rationally.
The efficiency of the use of the area of your land plot is determined by two coefficients.
This is the coefficient of the development of the land plot, which is the ratio of the area of the buildings
and the covered structures to the area of the entire land plot.
Its average value in the industrial expression is approximately 0.22-0.35.
The coefficient of the use of the area of the land plot, which is the ratio of the area of the buildings
and the covered structures to the area of the entire land plot.
Its value usually varies from 0.4 to 0.7.
It is necessary to emphasize that the area of the land plot is adapted to the specific needs of the enterprise.
The area of the land plot is the area of the entire land plot.
All this should not be forgotten, because the results of the wrong choice of production facilities,
their incorrect operation and a lack of understanding of the problems associated with them
will immediately affect the balance of your firm's departments.
Both in terms of expenses and in terms of revenues.
If you find that the building does not meet the new requirements of your business,
do not rush to make a quick decision.
Of course, it is not necessary to build, but an unthinkable decision will result in a limitation
for the further growth of the business and may lead to even greater problems.
Do not give up the desire to find a quick solution to your problems.
This is impossible.
Most likely, your attempts will be ineffective
and will most likely lead to adverse results.
The most important issue when choosing a room for your business is the choice of the so-called shell of the building itself.
The fact is that most civil construction facilities are designed for service life up to 75 years.
Unfortunately, they are not sufficiently modernized.
The shell that best suits your premises depends on both internal and external conditions
and on the environmental factors.
For most firms, this depends on the type of production.
For many manufacturers, the type of the necessary premises depends on the stage of development of your business structure.
Whether they are young, mature, mature.
Please look at the following slide.
This table shows the approximate ratio of the stage of development of the firm,
the type of production premises, the type of property,
the premises that are most suitable for your firm.
What else is necessary when choosing a room?
Most likely, the logic suggests that you need to get answers to the following questions.
What technology do you use?
What relations between employees should be ensured for effective activity?
These questions will be considered in the next section of our course.
What are the requirements for free space necessary for working with partners?
How quickly does the situation inside our firm change?
How closely does the situation change in terms of external factors of your firm?
How wide are your connections with the outside world?
What is your firm's attitude to its image?
To determine how well-equipped your premises are,
try to answer the following question.
Is your building available for regular cargo deliveries?
Is the internal communication satisfactory?
Does your premises have all the necessary systems and equipment for your business?
These include the water and gas supply system,
heating system, fire extinguishing system,
optical window or cable connection system,
and a number of other systems.
Are the premises large enough to accommodate all the necessary equipment?
Is the building fully equipped with lighting, ventilation and air conditioning?
Is your building well-located in terms of employees and clients?
Can they get to you quickly?
This is especially important in large metropolises,
where both clients and employees have to stand in traffic for hours to get to the right place.
Is there enough space around your building for parking cars?
Is the main structure of the building in good condition?
Does the decoration of the premises satisfy you and your clients?
Does the premises meet the requirements of the fire safety law and sanitary and epidemiological standards?
The more positive answers you give to these questions,
the more you can be sure that the production premises at your disposal
meet your needs in space in the most effective way.
And you won't have to spend a long time
looking for new objects or reconstructions.
Please look at the next slide.
Here are the main conclusions and recommendations.
When choosing a production premises,
take into account the specifics of your business,
what and how you will produce,
your general needs in production areas,
with conditions of possible growth, in conditions of market growth,
the requirements of the building that are specific to your business,
the design features, the width of the doorways,
the height of the ceilings, the load on the floor,
the general requirements of the building, such as the location and infrastructure,
the condition of the building, the terms and conditions of the lease agreements,
the need to obtain additional permits and agreements
for the location of your building.
The compliance of the production premises with the requirements of the electrical and fire safety,
the requirements of the legislation in the field of health and safety of workers.
The cost of the expenses for both devices of your production in this building.
Now, dear colleagues, we will talk about a no less important topic,
about the decisions regarding the choice of production equipment.
Planning and choosing of production equipment,
which means the allocation of very significant money and other resources
for the production, is an extremely important task.
It requires the presentation of the expected demand
in the form of the needs in production capacities and workforce,
due to the obligations to the main suppliers,
taking into account the possibility of demand growth.
All these decisions often have to be made before obtaining real orders.
The degree of intuition in making such decisions
and their justification depends on the business itself.
Nevertheless, there is a certain consistency of measures,
which will allow you to make decisions with greater confidence
and without great analytical efforts.
The forecasting of the general demand
and the specific expected volumes of sales of your products.
The decision on which components to buy and which to produce with your own resources.
One of the most important management dilemmas.
Make or buy.
The design of the production process,
the determination of the real, not overestimated and not underestimated
demand in capital investments.
The development and implementation of technical equipment and the technological process.
What else should you pay attention to when choosing production equipment?
Please look at the following slide.
When choosing a specific equipment,
I recommend that you make a list of key questions.
What products will you produce and in what quantities?
What are the features of the technological process of work of your enterprise?
What factors will determine for you when choosing technological equipment parameters?
What basic and auxiliary equipment do you need?
What equipment is presented on the market and who offers it?
What raw material or components do you need?
What means do you have?
Is it possible to purchase the equipment you have chosen,
for example, on the conditions of leasing or payment delay?
The following slides show specific steps
that make up the equipment selection procedure.
1. Determine the need for machines and equipment
based on the planned production capacity and selected technology.
At the same time, we recommend paying special attention to the performance
and planned operating mode, so-called equipment loading.
If your equipment will work with a low load,
it will be a sign of its wrong choice.
This situation often occurs when choosing lift-transport equipment,
for example, in a warehouse.
Although the weight of a separate pallet rarely exceeds 1 ton,
fork-loaders with a load capacity of 3-5 tons are very often used.
This is at least irrational.
2. Based on the planned operating mode,
determine the nominal required capacity of the equipment
and compare it with the required capacity in other production areas,
so that there are no narrow places.
The issue of adjusting problems with narrow places
will be discussed in detail in the last part of our course.
3. The need for machines and equipment should be related
to the capacity requirements at various stages of the technological process.
This is the axiom.
4. Make an approximate list of the basic and auxiliary equipment you need.
Start selecting equipment from those machines
that play a fundamental role in your technological process,
gradually moving from basic equipment to auxiliary equipment.
5. Your technical department, with the participation of the top management,
should constantly analyze offers on the equipment market,
contact catalogs of manufacturers, participate in exhibitions,
in order to get an idea of possible options in advance
in terms of performance, cost, completeness,
delivery conditions, installation, installation, warranty service,
and other pre-transaction, transaction and post-transaction conditions.
6. When choosing equipment, pay attention to other characteristics,
for example, its weight and dimensions,
which is especially important if your production is located
in a multi-storey building, the amount of raw materials used,
electricity, service complexity, equipment complexity
in relation to the qualifications of workers, and other very important indicators.
7. Think in advance where and how the equipment will be installed,
find out from manufacturers what additional costs
related to the operation of a particular type of equipment
may arise at your enterprise.
This can be the installation of special ventilation devices,
air conditioning devices, power cables,
technological water supply and discharge, special measures
for fire and electrical safety, and so on.
8. The total cost of ownership.
Provide the budget for the purchase of equipment
not less than 10%, but better 15% of the total cost
for additional expenses, including the installation of the equipment,
the purchase of spare parts, equipment, materials,
control and measurement instruments, and so on.
9. You can see the conclusions and recommendations on the next slide.
The conclusions on the equipment selection are as follows.
Equipment should be selected only after the production process
is designed. You must decide what components
you will buy and what you will produce with your own resources.
You must determine the real needs in capital investments.
You must base the choice of equipment on the forecasts of the total demand
and the expected sales volumes, that is, on the data
of the marketing analysis.
The decision to install production facilities is a key element
in the overall strategic planning of any company.
The drastic changes in the global environment,
in combination with the rapid development of technology and equipment,
have led to the fact that it takes very little time
for the managers to make a decision on the installation of equipment.
It was not until recently, but only for weeks, and sometimes for days.
In addition, many of these decisions concern not the installation of factories
or retail items, but supporting functions.
If you remember, one of our initial activities
in the modern economy is the service sector.
This is one of the manifestations of this effect.
A few words about the features of the installation of service facilities.
First of all, it should be noted that due to the great variety of service services
and relatively low costs for creating service companies compared to industrial ones,
new service centers are introduced much more often than new factories and warehouses.
In the service sector, it is very important to have many points of contact
with the customer, and this is a key element.
The service sector is a very important part of the global economy.
It is very important to have many points of contact with the customer.
Therefore, the decision to install service facilities is closely related
to the decision to choose a market,
to the decision on how close the service facility is to the consumer.
If the decision to install new industrial enterprises is made
primarily on the basis of the decision on the minimum total costs,
then many methods for deciding on the installation of service facilities
are based on maximizing potential profits in various places.
This is the main fundamental difference.
The main fundamental difference.
To manage means to lead enterprises to the goal.
This phrase by Andrei Foyoli from his book
What is Production? is very well known.
Now we will talk about the most important part of the management
of a production and service enterprise.
The so-called loading of production and service facilities.
In other words, the placement of processes.
Look at the next slide.
Let's talk about what production is.
It is necessary to remember that the production process includes
more than just the production of a certain material product.
Production always represents not only a product,
but also a service to consumers.
The process of processing means adding value
or advantage to what is processed.
It should be remembered that people, machines are a resource
and a base for production.
Pay attention to the following slide,
where the answers to the questionnaire are indicated.
What do you understand about production?
Production is a process of processing or transformation.
Production is intended for the production of goods or products.
Production involves the presence of professional knowledge and skills.
It requires a complex combination of knowledge and skills.
It is the main task of management.
It is responsible for most of the selection of personnel.
It is the main area for huge investments in business.
It is the main means of satisfying consumer requirements.
It is the main factor that often decides the profitability and growth.
This list is not exhaustive,
but the statement of the main task of management
is typical and typical of any type of business.
Using the usual resource-product model,
production can be defined as a process of processing,
in which the resource is added to the cost of the product
to the desired consumer.
Perhaps this is a simplified definition,
but it gives a practical understanding of the essence of production.
In the next slide, you will be able to refresh your memory
of the production process scheme.
One of the main aspects of production is the transformation of resources,
which acquire enterprises, goods,
which are then supposed to be successfully sold to consumers.
This assumes that your customers consider your goods more valuable
than the competitors.
Therefore, the process of processing is considered
as a process of adding value.
According to this picture,
the task of the enterprise is to perceive the factors of production
at the input, process them, and then give the finished product.
This is called production activity.
The first three categories are the source resources,
which should be purchased so that the production process functions.
These are orders received from customers.
It is the work of marketologists
aimed at increasing the number of these orders
that is the driving force of any business process,
including production.
This is an unexpected word for the economy.
But otherwise, as a view of the future,
this phenomenon is not called.
Expectations can be considered an inexhaustible source,
an immaterial resource, formed from a number of sources.
The fact is that each manager of a business process
puts together his opinion on production,
and the consumer expects that it will be more useful for him
than the one that competes with him on the market.
Production activity consists of many elements
that are interconnected
within the framework of what is called the supply chain.
Accordingly, production is a part of a larger,
complex business system.
Accordingly, production as a subsystem requires qualified management.
Production, from the point of view of management,
is a complex of decisions that require
careful forecasting and planning.
Initial decisions usually concern less technical issues,
but more organizational and marketing ones.
You should decide how to use your time and resources,
and what volume of work you are ready to take on.
To make the right decision, you need to know
what work you can do better than your competitors.
That is, you need to determine your core function.
The finished product of a production business
is always a certain product, including a service.
A service is a product that adds value
to the main material product produced by the consumer.
Please look at the next slide.
It contains certain recommendations
that you can use when making a decision
on the placement and development of production.
The main task of production is to process resources
into a finished product that is more valuable to the consumer
otherwise your entire activity will be pointless.
The main resources include people, energy, raw materials, machines,
and what is called 5P operational management.
In every business, the process of processing
takes place according to its technology
and you need to understand how production functions
The most important factor of success
is whether you can find specialists
who can provide the basis for operations, control,
and the complete process of processing.
This issue has been very hotly debated
all over the world, including in our country.
What types of production are there?
This is a complex characteristic of the technical,
organizational, and economic features of production
due to its specialization in volume and constant nomenclature.
If volume is used as a key factor
in determining the variety of type processes,
then you can identify 5 types of production.
This is design production.
The production equipment is transported to the place where the product is produced.
What is the example? Construction.
The next type is the production of products by order.
Sometimes it is also called small-scale production.
It is determined by the fact that the production of one product
is carried out for a specific client.
The manufacturer adjusts his equipment
to the requirements of the client.
For example, the production system
at the engine companies is designed for machines
with extremely high technical characteristics.
Another example is the diamond-diamond complex.
Each specific limited precious stone
is produced at the request of a jewelry trading company.
This allows you to perform a wide range of orders
within the framework of this qualification
and be competitive in everything except price.
The price here expresses a high-quality characteristic
than affects the order.
The client is ready to pay for the value that he needs.
It should be noted that the production of products by order
is carried out at once.
Each product has a set of individual properties.
It does not matter if the diamond is Koh-I-Noor
or a turbine for a nuclear power plant.
The manufacturer works either according to the client's drawing
or taking into account his wishes
within the framework of so-called joint engineering.
The production is flexible.
This type is characterized by high intensity
and highly qualified work.
It should be noted that re-orders
for this type of production are rare.
It is impossible to take advantage of the re-operation.
The so-called curve of experience is used.
The number of re-orders is less than in the previous type.
The next type of production is determined
as the production of products in batches.
The product obtained as a result of this production
is repetitive with relatively large volumes.
The production is divided into separate operations,
which are used for the next operation
and so on for the final production stage.
The production of products in batches is carried out
when the volume of production is required
and the operation can be repeated.
The distribution of production volumes is large enough
to accommodate several exclusive items,
such as clothes, portes, and many other items.
Such manufacturers usually use universal equipment
that is adapted for equal and effective execution
of repetitive operations,
because small volumes of production
do not justify capital investment in specialized equipment.
The volume of the product increases even more.
The quality step in increasing the volume.
The need to introduce a special process appears,
which is carried out in each stage of production in sequence.
The distribution of production is used
when the upcoming increase in volumes
justifies capital investment in production
of a particular type of product.
All production is organized in this type
as a sequence of operations,
the so-called streams,
necessary for the production of a given assortment of products,
for which a production line is intended.
The characteristic of stream production
is continuous production,
which takes place in a number of industries.
This process is characteristic, for example,
for oil chemical processes,
for coxochemical batteries, for purification facilities, and so on.
It should be borne in mind that each type of production process
has a distinctive property.
The following four factors are necessary for the production process.
1. Productivity and customer needs.
2. Production process. 3. Capital investment and cost.
4. Organizational infrastructure. 5. Adequate market requirements.
What is the most important element for a company
that produces products at order?
Of course, the exact fulfillment of the consumer's requirements.
This is the most important element.
When producing batches of products,
it is possible to perform different volumes of work.
This type of production is a connecting link
between the option of performing small orders
and the wide-scale production of standardized products.
When producing batches of products,
companies with exact production offer
clearly limited standardized products,
which are produced in large batches and compete in price.
The modern level of production business
knows the examples of mega-factories,
one or two of which can meet the needs
of the population of the entire globe
and the demand for a particular product.
An example is the production of printers
by Rengxerox. There are only two of them.
The production level of Rengxerox
is from 40 to 45 percent.
When producing products at order,
the high degree of flexibility of production
is the effective implementation of the main resource
of the workers' qualifications.
This type of production is characteristic
for some countries, including Italy.
It should be noted that when producing products
at order, the capital investment in equipment is relatively low.
A small number of specialists are usually used.
This leads to relatively low capital costs.
Given the high intensity of labor and the workers' qualifications,
the cost of labor is most of all expenses,
up to 70-75 percent.
In some cases, the cost of materials is relatively low
compared to the cost of labor.
If expensive materials are required,
the company of diamond-diamond complex
is a good example.
It produces diamond with a certain number of facets
and raw stones, which are mainly provided to customers.
When producing products at order,
the capital investment in production
is the effective implementation of the main resource
of the workers' qualifications.
The company tries to use equipment as much as possible
by producing more hours of production
using the same technology.
This increases the efficiency of the capital investment.
The highest level of capital investment
is the material acquired from other companies.
The cost of labor is a relatively small part of the costs.
Dear listeners, in the course of the workbook
you will be able to find a consideration
of some other aspects of the choice of type of production,
including how the type of production
affects the organizational structure.
In the workbook, in my opinion,
there is a fairly interesting table
that compares different aspects of production processes
and the consequences that are characteristic
of each of the types of production.
From the table, it is clear that the options of production
are the most important and strategic impact
on many aspects of the business.
Now look at the next slide,
which shows some conclusions and recommendations
that would be useful for you
when choosing the type of production.
In general, when choosing the type of production
you need to clearly distinguish the main types of production.
They cannot be mixed, because they are managed in completely different ways.
You must understand the hidden disadvantages
and advantages of each type of production.
Determine the most acceptable type of production for you,
as well as anticipate organizational and other changes,
including changes in the field of corporate culture,
and then make a choice of a specific type of production.
Now, dear listeners, we will discuss the following topic,
namely, what is a production cycle.
A production cycle is a period of time
during which all stages of the production process
pass, from the first production operation
to the delivery of the finished product to the consumer.
This period is divided into two parts.
The working period, during which the work is in the process of production,
and the time of breaks in this process.
The working period is the time of technological and non-technological operations.
The last number is all control and transport operations,
as well as operations for re-arrangement
from the moment of the first production operation
to the moment of the delivery of the finished product.
Business practice shows that the reduction of the production cycle
allows enterprises to accelerate the turnover of their funds,
to implement the established plan with minimal costs,
and to produce a part of the turnover.
This is very important, especially for small enterprises.
The experience of successful enterprises shows that
the reduction of the production cycle
is one of the most important tasks of a modern organization,
which is the sole solution that largely depends on the effective
and profitable work of the entire system as a whole.
Please look at the following slide.
It shows the principles of the organization of production,
which are currently relevant for an effective and competitive organization.
These principles are as follows.
Proportionality, parallelism, continuity,
accuracy, rhythm, flexibility and complexity.
Proportionality in the organization of production
is the corresponding productivity of all units of the enterprise to each other.
To ensure maximum proportionality,
it is necessary to design the enterprise correctly
and optimally combine production sites.
This is almost impossible to achieve in perfect synchrony.
We will talk about this at the end of our course,
when we will discuss the theory of limitations.
It should be noted that at the current pace of production updates,
it is necessary to constantly monitor the maintenance
of the maximum possible proportionality of production.
Because the rearmament of one unit
or some kind of focus improvements in their activities
require corresponding changes in the performance and power
of other units.
To do this, you need to develop tasks for each production site
taking into account the maximum use of the capabilities of the entire production flow.
In parallel with production,
the main processes of production are carried out in parallel.
Parallelity is realized at all levels of the organization.
Parallel execution of the main processes can be realized,
for example, by processing parts at the same time
in the assembly-assembly work, so-called network graphics work.
Parallel execution of the main and auxiliary operations
can be achieved by combining the time of machine processing,
the time of installation and removal of parts,
the time of checking and measuring, loading and unloading of equipment, and so on.
The complication of production at the present time,
as well as the use of automated,
and in some cases robotic equipment,
increases the number of parallel processes.
In the conditions of the complex process of manufacturing of modern products,
the work of the factory is provided by the acceleration of the turnover of the means.
At the workplace, it is achieved by reducing the time of the auxiliary,
so-called interoperational breaks,
during the execution of each operation.
At the site and in the production workshop,
it is done by transferring the semi-finished products from one workplace to another.
Interoperational breaks.
Under the directness of the organization of the production process,
it is understood that the shortest path of the product passing through all stages of operations
corresponding to the production process is provided.
From the launch of the production of raw materials and raw materials,
to the release of the finished product.
In accordance with these requirements, for example,
the mutual location of buildings and structures on the territory of the enterprise,
the production process must be carried out in a short time.
Material flow.
To ensure the full use of equipment,
material resources and working time,
the achievement of rhythm is of great importance.
The principle of rhythm is assumed by the uniform release of products
and the rhythmic course of the production process.
The rhythmic release of products means the production of the same amount of products
in an equal period of time, the so-called monotony of production.
The rhythm of production is expressed in the repetition of production processes
through equal periods of time and the execution of the same amount of work
at each workplace.
Why is this indicator important?
First of all, to determine the minimum possible number of adjustment and rearrangement works,
which are complex and require high qualification of workers and managers,
without adding to the cost of the final product.
With rhythmic work of production,
the maximum load of equipment is ensured,
normal operation is improved
by using material and energy resources and working time.
Unrhythmic work of each section leads to a violation of the normal course of production.
The very important value of determining methods of rhythm
of production is given to the theory of limitation
by Ilya Houdra, which we will discuss further.
In addition to all this, the modern level of scientific and technical progress
requires compliance with the flexibility of the production organization.
Not so long ago, the principles of the production organization
were achieved by the fact that the production of a certain number of products
should be stable and stable.
The production should be stable and the equipment should be of a certain type,
which sometimes did not change for decades.
In modern conditions, the reduction of the life cycle of any product
and the rapid renewal of the product should change the technology of production.
Meanwhile, a rapid change in equipment would cause
unjustified high costs for the manufacturer.
The main advantage of the production organization is the flexibility
of the equipment, which means the rapid re-establishment of the equipment
for new, sometimes very relatively related to the previous activity of production operations.
One of the most important principles of the organization
is also the complexity of production.
Modern production processes are characterized by constant interaction
and integration of the main auxiliary processes.
Therefore, due to the significant lag of automation of the auxiliary production
compared to the equipment of the main,
it is necessary to focus your attention on the rational organization of execution
not only of the main, but also of the auxiliary,
providing the auxiliary processes of production.
Although they do not directly bring profits to the enterprise,
the most organized functioning is impossible
effective work of the enterprise.
It should also be noted that in addition to types,
production differs in three main methods of organization of production processes.
Consistent, parallel and so-called parallel-consistent.
With a consistent method, a part in the production process
goes to each subsequent operation only after the end of processing
of all parts of the given batch for the previous operation.
In this case, from operation to operation,
the entire batch of parts is transported at the same time.
At the same time, each part lies on each operation,
first in the waiting of its turn of processing,
then in the waiting of the completion of processing of all parts of this batch.
What are the features inherent in the parallel method of production?
With a parallel method of processing of each part
for each subsequent operation,
it begins immediately after the completion of the previous operation,
regardless of whether the processing of other parts
for the same operation is completed or not.
With this method, several units of the same batch
can be simultaneously processed for different operations.
In comparison with the same processes performed in sequence.
This is the significant advantage of the parallel method,
which allows to reduce the duration of the production process.
We have already discussed the benefits of this reduction.
The third method, parallel-consistent,
is characterized by the fact that the processing process of parts of a given batch
for each subsequent operation begins earlier
than that of the previous operation.
The parts are thus transferred from one operation to another
by parts of the total batch.
The accumulation of some amount of parts on previous operations
before the start of the batch processing on subsequent operations,
the so-called production delay,
avoids the occurrence of lags.
This is the advantage of parallel-consistent methods.
Based on the above information,
we can formulate two main goals of production management.
The first is to satisfy the consumer demand.
This is a huge topic, which is devoted to marketing,
logistics, production management,
as well as the effective processing of resources.
Not always modern, especially innovative companies
give enough space in their strategy
to the second part of the effective processing of resources.
Many organizations have suffered a crash on the market,
despite the presence of quite satisfactory indicators,
satisfied buyers,
but they have not been able to rationalize the use of resources.
There are different approaches and methods
for optimizing the use of raw materials,
equipment and labor at different types of enterprises.
However, in all cases,
the goal of production management is to achieve a balanced and economical use of resources.
Its solution is extremely difficult.
It optimizes the use of one resource
by going to a certain exit to another.
This is the so-called triple constraint theory.
There is a certain contradiction between these goals.
There are two goals of production management.
Maximization of the output of the production process
and the satisfaction of the goal create a conflict between them.
Often, the improvement of one goal leads to the improvement of another.
All management management decisions should be made
based on the presence of conflicting goals,
the awareness of their conflict,
and the need to achieve a balance between them at all times.
The task is also complicated by the fact that each of these goals
has its own conflict situation between the ways of its achievement.
It should be added that the complexity of the management mission
also determines the variety of strategic functions of management,
which include the whole product strategy,
which determines the choice of new products
and the modernization of the already produced ones,
the process strategy,
which determines the choice of ways of production of goods
and the justification of production capacity,
the geographical strategy of the placement of new products in other regions,
the production organization strategy,
which determines the organizational structure of the enterprise,
the choice of forms and methods of organization of work within the enterprise structure,
the construction of work sites, the provision of their resources,
the service strategy of production,
which determines the form of organization of the technical, logistical, warehouse,
transport and other services of the enterprise,
the quality strategy,
which is responsible for the so-called total quality management.
The task is closely related to the above-mentioned tasks and problems,
the issue of placement of the process and the loading of capacities.
The purpose of the placement is to find such a mutual arrangement of objects,
which will ensure the unhindered movement of the production flow
to the enterprise or the continuous process of service
of the consumer in the service organizations.
In any case, when making a decision on the optimal placement,
it is necessary to consider a set of initial parcels,
specific goals, corresponding to specific criteria of assessment,
which must be achieved in the placement project,
demand for products and services produced and considered by the system,
the needs of the process in terms of the number of operations,
and in terms of the volume of material flows,
spatial requirements for the placement of elements in the premises,
and availability within the building, if a new building,
then, if possible, its configuration.
Please look at the following slide.
It indicates the reasons for the need to make a decision
on the placement of capacities and planning of premises in the current production.
This can be both inefficiency of the existing process,
then this operation takes place within the framework of the existing process,
and the process is not in the framework of re-engineering of business processes
or anti-crisis management.
The unfortunate cases of production or increased risk of people's activities
in production, modification of products and services produced under the influence of the market,
the beginning of production of new products and services under the influence of the market,
changes in the volume of the assortment,
qualitatively, threshold changes,
or maintenance of scientific and technical progress,
changes that are caused by environmental or legislative requirements.
Dear listeners, please look at the following slide.
How for existing DACs and for newly opened enterprises,
the aggregate of the event,
which is called technological preparation of production, is necessary.
Since it is it that helps to master production
and production of new high-quality products in the set time period,
with a set amount, with high economic efficiency.
Technological preparation of production is a kind of aggregate of the event,
which ensures the presence of complete conflicts
of design, technological, control documentation,
technological equipment, which is necessary for the production of a set volume of the product,
of the established quality.
The technological preparation of production of new products
solves the task of ensuring the technological design of your products,
that is, the ability to manufacture the most acceptable
in terms of the cost of raw materials,
working time, method.
Development of technological processes and methods of their control.
Design and manufacture of technological equipment
and non-standard equipment, if necessary.
Organization and management of the processes of technological preparation of production.
If you are facing this task for the first time,
we recommend that you familiarize yourself with the general rules of ensuring the technological design of the product.
These are standardized rules.
They are contained in the Russian GOST No. 14.201-83.
More details on this issue
are also considered in the applicable workbook.
Please take a look if you are interested in this.
It should also be noted that the development, acceptance and transfer
of new technological processes in production is carried out in accordance
with the requirements of the international standards of the ISO 9000 series.
The management of technological processes in our country
is carried out in accordance with the SISDINA system of technological preparation of production,
which is established by the state standard GOST No. 14.001-73.
Now, please take a look at the following slide.
What should we consider when making a decision
on the optimal placement of equipment?
First of all, the specific goals of your enterprise
that are used to assess the project.
The size of the production areas,
the distance that must be overcome between the various production elements
and many other things that we have already discussed.
The second most important thing is the demand for the product and services.
The third is the requirement for the process,
taking into account the number of operations and the volume of the material flow
between the individual elements in the layout scheme.
It is also necessary to take into account the spatial requirements
for the placement of the elements of the premises
and the spatial availability within the structure itself
or, if it is a new structure, then possible architectural planning forms.
Please take a look at the following slide.
It shows the basic methods of placing processes.
There are three basic methods of placing processes and workplaces.
One is based on the technological principle,
the subject principle, and the principle of service of a mobile object.
And there is also a combined method,
based on the principle of group technology or the formation of technological cells.
The following slides show the features of the placement of equipment on these principles.
The placement of equipment on the technological principle
involves the same equipment or homogeneous technological operations,
which are grouped together.
At the same time, the processed part is moved in accordance with the sequence of operations
from one place to another, and for each operation the appropriate equipment is located.
Under the optimal placement in this case,
such a location of the sites is adopted,
and the number of moving objects of labor between adjacent sites is determined.
That is, with the minimum possible in-production movements.
The placement of the process according to the technological principle
is also sometimes called the placement according to the functional principle
or the placement of a small-scale serial process.
The placement of production that works according to orders.
The following slide.
Here are the advantages of equipment placement according to the technological principle.
First of all, the system meets the most diverse production requirements.
The system that is organized in this way
is not particularly sensitive to the failure of individual equipment sections.
Equipment is used for general purposes,
and it is usually less expensive than specialized equipment.
At the same time, individual systems of motivation are used
in the field of management of the workforce.
However, there is never an advantage without a disadvantage.
And you can see the following.
The costs of creating and maintaining material production stocks
at a certain level can be quite high.
Planning the movement of labor and materials along this system,
as well as the composition of production schedules,
is a very difficult mathematical task.
The coefficient of use of equipment of general purpose is not high.
The work on the placement of the product is slow and not efficient enough.
The relative complexity of the work often reduces the possibility of control
and leads to large costs of control.
The cost of production units is quite high.
At the same time, it is more difficult to manage the production stocks,
the system of purchases, accounting.
The following slides show the features of the placement of the process
according to the subject principle.
The following slide shows the placement of the process
This is the way of placing the process,
in which the equipment or production process is built
in the sequence of technological operations,
through which the product is made.
Most often, in this way of placement,
the production line for the production of shoes,
chemical plants,
and even the usual car washing operations are used.
All measures of placement of the process
and organization of work according to the subject principle
will be mentioned a little later.
The advantages of the placement of the process
are high productivity, low cost of production units,
high level of specialization of labor resources,
which allows fast training,
low cost of moving the product to the unit,
high level of efficiency of using labor,
and standardization of all or most processes.
The following slide shows the disadvantages of the placement of equipment
according to the subject principle.
First of all, monotonous work operations give little opportunity for improvement.
This can lead to certain problems
in the collective's moral climate.
Since in this type of placement,
equipment can be used by unqualified labor,
which can be of little interest to the operation of equipment
in a proper way and to the quality of the product.
The system is not flexible enough.
The system is extremely sensitive to breakdowns and failures at any stage.
Significant costs are required for preventive operations
and repair of equipment,
as well as maintenance of the reserve of spare parts at a very high level.
The placement of the process according to the principle of group technology
or cellular placement, formation of technological cells,
as this method is sometimes called,
involves a certain grouping of various equipment
in the so-called technological cells,
in which the full production of products
with the same or similar methods and requirements for production is carried out.
However, it should be noted that it can be used
in small-scale production more effectively.
Group technology also requires
that technological classification is carried out for all components of the product,
providing easy identification of each element,
and, accordingly, a suitable encoding system is used,
allowing to easily and quickly select technological cells
and equipment necessary for the production of the appropriate product.
Another principle of equipment placement
is the principle of maintenance of a mobile object.
It is implemented in those exceptional cases,
when the product, due to large dimensions or mass,
remains in one place during the entire production process.
The most vivid example can be given as a shipbuilding ship.
Some construction facilities,
and even such production activities are far from the main production,
as a film production process.
At the same time, it should be said that many production facilities
are a combination of various types of equipment placement
and organization of the process.
At the same time, there are quite serious computer tools
that facilitate the solution of these tasks.
Among the computer programs designed for the search
for the optimal way of placing the process,
the most widely used is the comparative method
of computer placement of production facilities.
This method is called computerized relative location of facilities technique.
You can read more about this method in our workbook.
At the same time, it should be said that when solving certain tasks
related to the organization of production,
it is often impossible to get a sufficient number of descriptions of the flow of parts,
or it is difficult to identify some quality factors
that interfere with the decision-making of the placement.
In such situations, you can try to use the long-experienced method,
which is called the systematic layout planning method.
This method includes the development of a matrix of mutual connections,
and the general methodology is also provided in our workbook.
This method can be used with both computer technology
and a pencil and a piece of paper.
Please look at the next slide.
Here is one of the tools of the organization of production,
which is called the flow line.
The flow line is a kind of a set of processing elements,
which work at a certain pace and time standard for each technological operation.
The flow line is often a set of products,
and serves as an example of the organization of the production process oriented on the product.
Usually, the term flow line implies a multiple repeating process,
which has separate links,
for example, a device for transporting materials.
Flow lines work at a certain pace,
quite intensively, but at the same time,
they are available for all operations.
At the same time, the time standards of each technological operation are the same.
Some flow lines are just a device for transporting materials,
while others are distinguished by a special configuration of the flow line.
This is a conveyor of U-shaped form,
rectilinear, winding or other types.
At the same time, the organization of production by the method of the flow line
implies a very significant and complex operation,
which is called balancing the flow line.
Despite the fact that the calendar planning,
the most important production plan,
has a primary role in the management of processes,
often when the production sites are placed,
it is necessary to balance the flow line.
The need for balancing occurs when the size or number of workplaces
on the flow line needs to be changed.
For various reasons, including a lack of workforce.
In the most general case, the assembly line is a moving conveyor,
the work items on which pass through a number of workplaces.
At each workplace, a certain technological operation is performed on the product.
The operation performed at each workplace consists of separate elements of the task.
These are the so-called working units.
Usually, working units consist of actions and movements,
which are difficult to subdivide into smaller units.
The task of balancing the assembly line is to establish such cycles
at all workplaces,
so that each worker performs as many elements and tasks,
as possible during the entire assembly line cycle.
And so that the free time not occupied by the operation,
that is, the so-called downtime, was minimal at all workplaces.
In the following slides, you will see the algorithm of balancing the flow line.
It should be noted that purely empirically,
it can be concluded that the longest element or task
limits the shortest time of the assembly line cycle.
This is a kind of bottleneck.
How to expand these bottlenecks, we will see a little later.
But one of the technological techniques is the splitting of work tasks.
Since the time of performing the longest task
becomes the lowest time limit,
it is necessary to split the task into two or more parts.
This can be achieved using task splitting methods,
using parallel workplaces,
using the labor of more qualified workers,
or even come to the redesign of the product.
All these methods are considered in the following slide.
When balancing the assembly line,
there is a problem with the joint performance of the elements of the operation with different lengths.
The technical solution to such problems is achieved
by the application of flexible and so-called U-shaped assembly line configurations.
The U-shaped assembly line has several advantages,
which include the ability to reduce the time for loading and unloading work,
due to the fact that the places of the input and output of the finished product
are in the territorial vicinity.
This line takes up less space, requires fewer staff,
and makes it easier for the team to work.
It is worth mentioning the method of balancing the assembly line
with the mixed sequence of product models.
This method is used by many industrial companies,
which have introduced the Just-in-Time system,
in particular, the founder of this system is Toyota.
The purpose of such balancing is to satisfy the changing demand
for various product models and prevent the formation of large stocks.
We can quote Mr. Yoshihiro Mandon from Toyota Motor,
which draws attention to the simplicity of this approach.
Toyota Motor's assembly line is a mixed sequence of models.
The daily production is calculated by the division of the number of cars
provided by the monthly production schedule
and the number of working days per month.
The order of the assembly of each model is calculated
and the sequence of their production is determined.
In order for the different models of cars to be produced in the set time,
the order of their production is set on the assembly line.
In fact, very few have succeeded in this.
In the next slide, dear listeners,
we will discuss the implementation of equipment
according to the principle of group technology.
This principle unites the two previous ones.
The principle has certain advantages.
First of all, the factor of human relationships is improved
by using the brigade form of labor.
This brigade form of labor contributes to the rapid acquisition
and accumulation of production experience.
This principle contributes to the reduction of unfinished production
and the cost of transporting factory materials.
It allows you to quickly re-install equipment.
When the process is placed according to the principle of group technology
or the formation of so-called technological cells,
various equipment is grouped in cells, clusters,
to perform operations with several products
that are homogeneous in terms of design and technological principles.
Currently, this principle is widely used in various types of metalworking,
in the production of chips for computer equipment,
and in a number of other assembly works.
The biggest advantage and benefit from the placement of the process
according to the principle of cell formation is produced
by order and small-scale production.
The next slide shows the formation procedure of production cells,
which involves the grouping of components of a product
into certain families, which have a general stage of processing,
the determination of the structure of the dominant flow of family components,
on the basis of which technological processes are placed
or re-placed, and the physical grouping of equipment
and technological percentages in these components.
According to the work of the famous manager and economist Schoenberger,
the organization of technological cells is the most expedient,
since it is possible to group a family of components of a product.
To avoid such a situation when there are several machines of each type,
therefore, the removal of any excess machine from the cell
is not a good idea.
The main advantage of the organization of technological cells
is that the size of their machine was critical.
When forming in a cell, such problems do not reduce
the throughput of this cell.
The work centers consist of easily movable and separate machines,
or of heavy machines, but quite simply fixed on the floor,
to change their configuration space.
In the following slides,
the features of the placement of equipment
in the principle of maintenance of a mobile object are shown.
To organize the production of a mobile object,
it is necessary to establish the order of work,
which is determined by the production stages.
The placement of equipment and components around a mobile object
should be developed according to the principle of grouping materials
This principle is used when installing such large-scale equipment
as stamping presses for metallurgical production.
For the installation of work,
a series of operations is carried out in strict sequence.
This principle is applied when assembling products,
when it begins from the very base of the product,
and then components are added to it in the form of standard blocks.
This is the principle of the installation of the famous Elf Tower in the middle of the 19th century.
Dear colleagues, the rest of the material
will be devoted to the features of the placement of the premises of the service organization,
the planning of these premises.
It should be noted that the purpose of the placement of the premises of the service organization
is retail, shops, banks, restaurants, hospitals.
Maximization of the number of employees
and the net profit is obtained from one square meter of the occupied area.
The placement of objects is closely related
to the management activity called merchandising.
In addition to the concept of merchandising,
that is, the orientation of the processes
for the organization of the placement of service objects,
the management of the organization of the placement of services
is based on the increase in the level of sales.
When placing service objects,
the term of the service landscape is actively used,
the so-called service escape,
under which the physical environment is understood, where services are provided.
It affects the consumer and the staff.
Understanding the concept of the service landscape
is the basis for choosing a successful placement of premises of a service company.
This concept contains three elements,
which must be considered separately.
The environment, spatial and functional placement of goods,
external attributes.
The concept of the environment includes such basic characteristics
as temperature, the presence of music in a restaurant,
the smell of the restaurant,
which can affect the work and moral state of not only the workers,
but, first of all, the perception of the service by the customers.
Despite the fact that many of these characteristics
initially depend on the design of the premises,
for example, on the placement of lighting devices,
ventilation fans, sound-proofing plates,
for example, near the cooking area there is usually a smell of cooking dishes,
the lighting of the tables, vestibules, is dim,
the tables near the stage will be noisy in the evening,
and the tables located near the entrance will often be on the through-wall.
Accordingly, the layout of the store or service object
is an important element of merchandising,
which represents the process of trading
as an important means of communication.
The layout of the store is one of the main elements of merchandising.
When developing it, it is important to think of methods
that stimulate the promotion of buyers to the shopping mall,
so that they buy more goods than previously planned.
Promoting events are as follows,
external variety of placement of shopping equipment,
originality of floor pattern, wallpaper,
inclined transitions, information display,
windshields, lighting, sound background,
aromatic background, which is quite actively used
in perfume network stores.
The atmosphere of the store or service object
must correspond primarily to its image and general strategy,
and design must contribute to the favorable decision-making.
First of all, in order to achieve merchandising,
it is necessary to select a target buyer
and develop a concept of a store that meets his needs.
It is clear that target groups of 15 and 70-year-olds
are extremely rare to coincide in their preferences.
Accordingly, in order to ensure that both clients
and buyers are satisfied with the product,
it is almost impossible to choose only one.
Specialists in retail trading believe that a store is a theater.
The wall and floor represent a scene.
Lighting, inlays, visual means of communication,
such as displays, are decorations.
And who plays the role of actors?
The toy section in this store is the largest.
It is located in the center of the hall on the first floor.
There are several entrances.
In the center of the hall there is a free children's carousel.
On the slides, in the shelves, in the baskets, on the floor,
there are many toys from different countries.
Each toy can be touched by a small potential buyer.
Children play, Baba Yaga flies under the ceiling.
Children's melodies sound in the hall.
The atmosphere of such a children's holiday is dominant here.
You know from your experience,
you need to be a very decisive parent
to come with a child to this store
and be able to take him away from the first floor without buying a toy.
Shop fitting.
The store means a complex approach
to the organization of a retail business.
It includes the definition of the store concept,
the definition of the target audience,
positioning of the store,
and additional events that stimulate sales.
Our workbook contains material
that concerns, first of all,
the spatial and functional methods of placing goods,
which implies planning the path and movement of the client
to the group of goods along this path.
The purpose of the planned path of movement is to find such a route
and allow to place necessary services along this route
in order to be desirable for the client.
One of the pioneers of this approach
was the American Leonard Steeve,
who developed the routes of movement in Kmart stores
so that the buyer did not even have an intention to turn away from it.
The dim light in Kmart supermarkets is also famous in this regard.
Leonard Steeve planned his stores
in such a way that the buyer moved along the shopping stream.
Special points, placing shops throughout the entire shopping area,
are used to attract the attention of the buyer
and show them the way to certain sections of the store,
to certain advantages of the most profitable goods.
It is necessary to focus on several basic elements
that stem from marketing research
regarding the planning of the route and grouping of goods.
A buyer in a supermarket, when shopping,
is prone to move around the perimeter.
The appropriate placement of high-profit goods along the walls of the store
increases the likelihood of their purchase.
The goods located in the supermarket at the end of the aisle
and other non-business departments
that the buyer expects to be serviced
should be placed on the upper floors or in the dead zones.
Depending on the system of installation of shopping equipment,
various types of technological planning of the shopping hall are used.
Linear, so-called lattice, boxing, track or loop,
mixed, free, exhibition.
These planning solutions are considered in the following slides.
I would ask you to watch them together with the study of the material in the workbook.
For each planning is a planning of a specific store,
starting with the well-known GUM on Red Square,
ending with the Ram Store on Shremetyevskaya Street.
Using the example of the installation of these very profitable
shopping enterprises, you can choose some templates
or templates for the organization of the shopping areas
of your shopping or service enterprises.
What are the services and shopping areas?
When planning service and shopping areas,
attention is extremely important to external attributes,
which include signs, symbols and moving advertising,
some socially significant elements of the service.
As a surrounding environment,
these elements are determined by the design of knowledge,
although the orientation, location and size of many objects and zones
can make a certain sense.
In our workbook, dear listeners,
you will also be able to consider some materials
describing the complex of measures
that ensure the effectiveness of work in the field of management.
For example, the location of the office,
the location of workplaces in the office and the organization of workplaces.
It may seem surprising to some of you,
but literally up to a centimeter the necessary spaces
on the work table are calculated,
the location of pens, notebooks, displays,
dictaphones and other architectural equipment is indicated.
I hope that the materials in the workbook
will help you optimize the working areas of your employees,
while reducing the costs of buying unnecessary equipment.
In general, it should be said that there are only two concepts
of the device and planning of service premises,
used in the practice of organization design.
This is the office system of planning
and the hall system,
which is sometimes called the open space system.
At the same time, the office system involves the placement of groups of employees
in the divisions and their managers in separate rooms.
The hall principle of the service premises
is that it is a large hall,
which often occupies one floor and is designed for up to a thousand people.
Naturally, such a hall is equipped with air conditioning,
sound insulation and lighting.
It can be allocated using special moving partitions,
separate areas, as well as places for meetings and receptions of visitors.
The service premises are considered rational
so that the managers are placed in one room with the subordinates.
Sometimes their workplaces are separated from the subordinates
by moving partitions.
The placement of workplaces in halls is made strictly
in accordance with the working process and the flow of documents.
Their grouping is determined by the technology of the main works performed,
and the number of workplaces can be easily rebuilt.
The cost of building such premises and the required area for one employee
sharply decreases compared to the office method.
It should also be noted that the administrative offices of the company
are often designed and built in such a way
as to create the desired image of the company.
For example, the administrative office complex of the Scandinavian Airline System
is located near Stockholm.
It is a group of two-story buildings with glass walls
that, according to the designers,
implies openness of relations and a flat hierarchy,
that is, a small number of levels of management,
which is a characteristic feature of this company.
In the following slides, dear listeners,
you will see a set of signs of successful placement
of production and office operations.
Pay attention to some of these signs.
This is a straight line structure of the flow,
no matter if it is of buyers, documents, materials.
This is the minimum return time to the starting position.
This is the predictability of the time of production or purchase.
This is a small intermediate supply of materials.
This is, by the way, the epoch in the store.
These are open factory workshops or open office and trading rooms,
which allows everyone to see what is happening inside.
This is narrow places control.
This is a close location of narrow places to the basic processes.
This is a clearly organized transportation and storage of materials,
or visitors.
This is the absence of unnecessary, overlapping, duplicating,
moving of materials, documents, visitors.
This is an easy adaptation to changing conditions.
In addition, considering that service services
should be face to face with the consumer,
the signs of such a successful layout
are the structure of the service flow.
Finding a room to wait,
if the buyers are served in order of turn.
This is the convenience of communication with the client.
This is the simplicity of monitoring the behavior of the client.
This is a free entrance and exit with the appropriate means of control,
including control over the so-called radio frequency tags.
The departments and their work are organized in such a way
that the clients see only what you want them to see.
In particular, if there are rush hours,
the queue will see the employees of your office,
who are not directly engaged in servicing their needs.
This will irritate the client.
It is also required to provide a uniform distribution of rooms
for waiting for the service,
a minimum of visitors and a minimum of moving of materials,
and the inability of any kind of disorder.
All this should ensure the main goal of high sales volume
and a high level of service.
The main goal of the service is to provide a minimum of visitors